Corporate Finance

Course subject and goal
The focus of this course is on international corporate finance. The current state of global markets’ volatility
has a serious impact on “perceived” and inherent corporate valuations. Furthermore, the current wave of
financial scandals in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere has alerted investors about the lack of efficient
mechanisms of corporate control across countries. To face these challenges, the course focuses on setting
up the framework for understanding how financial contracts are written around the world and how these
contracts affect basic corporate policies. Differences in institutional characteristics have recently been
shown to be key determinants of how corporations are owned and valued, as well as how they raise capital
and give it back to investors.

In this course, we will analyze: (1) What are best corporate governance practices?; (2) How are corporations
owned?; (3) How can we understand Mergers and Acquisitions?; (4) How do firms determine their pay-out
policies; (5) What is the role of financial contracting in mitigating opportunistic behaviour?; and (6) How
do firms finance themselves across countries?

Teaching method
The course will be graded on participation, exam, presentation and casework. Illustrative cases will be
developed in groups and discussed in class. Teams presenting their case solutions in class will get higher
grades.

Topics
This course is intended for students who plan to be involved at various stages of the investment and
financing processes of international projects. Financial contracting has implications for entrepreneurs in the
international arena, transaction advisors (investment bankers, commercial bankers, or consultants),
corporate sponsors (members of private equity and venture capital firms, corporate finance and strategic
planning departments), research analysts, international investors and money managers. The course is also
appropriate for students seeking to deepen their understanding of corporate and entrepreneurial finance
inside and outside Europe and the United States. The course topics are detailed below.

Meeting
Day
Date
Assignment
1
Monday
January 30
Agency & Corporate Governance (part 1)
2
Thursday
February 2
Agency & Corporate Governance (part 2)
Ownership Structures
3
Tuesday
February 6
Case: Koito Ltd.
4
Monday
February 13
9h30 to 12h30
Mergers and Acquisitions
5
Friday
February 17
Case: Samsung Electronics
6
Tuesday
February 21
Raising Capital Lecture
Dividend Policy (part 1)
7
Friday
February 24
Case: Perrier
8
Monday
March 12
Dividend Policy (part 2)
9
Friday
March 16
Case: Huaneng Power
10
Friday
March 19
Case: Alphatec
Wrap up Lecture

Cases
There are several cases that will be part of your grade.

You are expected to have prepared your case in groups and to have turned in your answers (via the
procedure outlined below) 10 minutes BEFORE the beginning of the first lecture where the case will
be discussed (see the specifics under each case). I recommend that you also bring an additional
printout of your answers into class to work through our discussion, ask questions to the groups that
are presenting, and take further notes.

The answers to the case have to be in one single PDF file (which can incorporate what ever
documents you want from word, excel, pictures, photocopies, power-points, etc…). You can use
whatever you want to use to answer the questions and back up your answers. But the important thing
is that you put all of those documents together in one single PDF file per group. So, remember: only
one file per group per case.

All groups need to turn in answers to all cases The only exception will be for the groups that are
presenting orally a specific case. The groups that are orally presenting a specific case should turn in
their power-point answers. They will count as the equivalent of the pdf that the rest of the groups are
turning in.

Case discussions and oral presentations
Each group will be required to present orally at least one case (depending on the number of groups in
each class). I am allowing groups to choose the case they want to present on a first-come-first-served
basis. So, in the same email where you sent me the name of the people that form your group, you
should also rank the cases according to your preference for presenting orally to the class. As I said
above, I will assign case presentations on a first-come-first-served basis as much as possible, but you
may not be able to get your first choice. If by the second lecture you have not given me the
information, I will assign you to groups randomly and/or chose the case that you will present.

For the case discussions in class, the groups that are presenting need to prepare a power point
presentation (which can include excel calculations, pictures, pdfs, etc…). This power point should
include all your answers to the case and should be turned in before class in the exact same schedule as
the rest of the class is turning in the written answers to the case (see below for the specific dates and
times). There will be several groups preparing each case for presentation in class at each time,
depending on the number of students, etc...

The rest of the students who are not presenting the case, are expected to be ready to participate
actively in questioning the results presented by the other groups and making additional contributions.
Participation is part of the final grade and a good participation through the course could earn you
extra points

You are expected to have read and prepared all the readings and the cases BEFORE coming to class.
Meetings 1 and 2: (January 30 and February 2, 2012)
Agency and Corporate Governance
 Welch: Chapter 24, Corporate Governance
 The Law of the Market, The Economist.
 Check the Laws before You Invest Abroad, The Economist.
 La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, Shleifer and Vishny, “Investor Protection and Corporate
Governance,” Journal of Financial Economics, 2001.
 Kaplan and Mitton, "How has CEO Turnover Changed?", 2008.
Firm Ownership Structures:
 La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes and Shleifer, “Corporate Ownership around the World,” Journal of
Finance, 2000.
 Bertrand, et al, “Ferreting out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups, Journal of
Finance, 2002.

Meeting 3: (February 6, 2012)
Case: case due for all groups by 2:00 pm
 Case: “Koito Manufacturing Ltd. And T.B. Pickens,” HBS Case # 9-291-027 (The U.S. versus
Japan).

Meeting 4: (February 13, 2012: from 9h30 to 12h30)
Mergers and Acquisitions

Grimbalt and Titman, “Financial Markets and Corporate Strategy,” McGraw-Hill Irwin, chapter
19: Mergers and Acquisitions.

Meeting 5: (February 17, 2012)
Case: case due by 09:30 am
 Case: “Samsung Electronics,” (U.S. versus Japan).

Meeting 6: (February 21, 2012)
Raising Capital: Issuing Equity in Global markets:
 BM: Chapter on: How Corporations Issue Securities
 Karolyi, G. Andrew., “The World of Cross-listings and Cross-listings of the World:
Challenging Conventional Wisdom,” Fisher College of Business working paper, August 2004.
 Maybe US Markets are still Supreme, Wall Street Journal.
 Doidge, Karolyi, and Stulz, “Has New York become less competitive in global markets?
Evaluating foreign listing choices,” Fisher College of Business Working Paper WP 2007-9, April
2007.
Dividend Policy: Dividends are Irrelevant (part 1)
 BM: Chapter on: The Dividend Controversy/Policy.
 Welch: Chapter 19: Equity Payouts, Dividends and Share Repurchases
 La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, Shleifer and Vishny, “Agency Theory and Dividend Policy around
the World,” Journal of Finance, 1999.

Meeting 7: (February 24, 2012)
Case: case due for all groups by 09:00 am
 Case: “Perrier, Nestle and the Agnellis,” Thunderbird American Graduate School of
International Management, Case # A06-98-0016.

Meeting 8: (March 12, 2012)
Dividend Policy: Dividends are Relevant (part 2)
 BM: Chapter on: The Dividend Controversy/Policy.
 Welch: Chapter 19: Equity Payouts, Dividends and Share Repurchases
 La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, Shleifer and Vishny, “Agency Theory and Dividend Policy around
the World,” Journal of Finance, 1999.

Meeting 9: (March 16, 2012)
Case: Case due for all groups by 09:00 am
 Case: Foerster, Steve R., Andrew Karolyi, Jerry White., “Huaneng Power International, Inc.:
Raising Capital in Global Markets,” IVEY Case #98N001

Meeting 10: (March 19, 2012)
Case: case due for all groups by 17:30 pm
 Case: Fagan, Foley and Gilson, “Alphatec Electronics Pcl,” Harvard Business School Case #
9-200-004.
 Final Wrap up: International Corporate Finance and Governance in the Future
