- Question 1: Mutual funds p. 537, hedge funds p. 551.
According to Mishkin and Eakins (p. 538), mutual funds date back to the late 1800s in England and Scotland when low income investors began pooling their money to purchase stocks. They became more popular when the US railroad industry needed huge amounts of funds, which were partly supplied by these small-time investors.
The first modern form of mutual funds was created in 1824. New shares of the fund were issued in exchange for incoming investment money. This setup allowed investors to continuously buy in and cash out of the fund. 
Mutual funds come in two forms; open- and closed-end. (P. 542). Closed-end funds are sold in something like an IPO on the market, and thereafter sold on the OTC market. After that, share prices fluctuate with underlying asset values. Open-end funds allow investors to contribute at any time, since when money comes in, shares outstanding grows alongside. 

What characteristics distinguish hedge funds from mutual funds? 
Mutual funds compose a gigantic industry. As of 2003, mutual funds held the same amount of net assets as all commercial banks in the US. There are more mutual funds than the amount of listings on AMEX, NYSE, and NASDAQ combined, (Mishkin, Eakins, p. 540). According to the 2011 Investment Company Fact Book, there are worldwide $24.7 trillion invested in mutual funds, and forty-four percent of US households owned mutual funds in 2010, (p. 21). 
Mutual funds also come in unique structures. Given their low risk levels relative to other funds, they attract a large number of pension plan investments. Their structure is highly diversified as well. They form large complexes, where one “Mutual Fund Co.” will invest in a number of other mutual funds, who can easily transfer assets between each other for small exchange fees. 
Hedge funds are a very different beast, and should not be confused with the actual act of hedging. People hedge in order to minimize risks, but hedge funds are not risk free (just look at LTCM). Unlike mutual funds, you need a lot of money to play with mutual funds; according to Mishkin and Eakins, you need at least $100,000 to $20 million to invest. US Federal law says no more than 99 limited partners can invest in a hedge fund, with income requirements such as they must all have individual steady annual incomes of $200,000 or more. However, if investors have more money, a hedge fund can take in as many as 499 of them (p. 553). And if that wasn’t enough, hedge funds charge heavy loads.
Most restrictions are set in place to allow hedge funds to dodge as much regulation as possible, with the idea being that wealthy people can take care of themselves. Most of the hedge funds are domiciled offshore to avoid regulations.
Also, hedge funds often require long term investments so that they can adopt long term strategies. Hedge funds have incredibly diverse strategies, but they generally seek to take advantage from temporary price differentials. 
They also often use lines of credit to leverage investor funds and reap greater rewards, or losses. LTCM actually reached a leveraged position of 50 to 1 (p. 552). 
Due to the lack of regulation and transparency, the hedge fund industry is also hidden from most people’s sight, lending it a cloak and dagger atmosphere. This is complete opposite to the openness seen in the mutual fund industry.

What are the advantages and disadvantages?
Mutual funds have five main principle benefits. They include liquidity intermediation, denomination intermediation, diversification, cost advantages and managerial expertise. 
Imagine that you only own a $5,000 CD but need $500 today to pay rent. Redeeming your funds early comes with a fee, and you can only take the entire $5,000 amount. It’s all or nothing, which is extremely inconvenient. Mutual funds provide investors with liquidity intermediation, or the ability to buy in and cash out quickly at low cost, whenever they want.
What if you want to invest in a money market security? You can’t get in because they sell in large denominations, $10,000 for a T-bill for instance. In the late 1800s investors in England and Scotland found a way around this problem. They began pooling their money and buying expensive shares together. This process became known as denomination intermediation, another advantage of mutual funds.
Diversification is the Holy Grail of investment. By buying securities whose prices move in opposite directions you can minimize risk and maximize return. In the real world you need a lot of securities to achieve good diversification, but this also requires more money than small investors have. An investment fund will pool many investors’ funds together, purchase a large set of securities, and thereby grant easier access to a diversified portfolio. Both mutual and hedge funds gain from this benefit. 
Individual investors can’t go to their broker and demand low transaction costs, but institutional investors who have large trading volumes can. Joining into a fund gives investors the cost advantage of accessing these lower fees. Here also, both mutual and hedge funds offer advantage. 
And of course, most people would rather entrust experts to manage their funds. Though management may not be able to outsmart the randomness of markets, investors can have some perhaps mistaken peace of mind. Mutual and hedge funds alike hire experienced specialists to manage their assets. According to the Investment Company Hand Book, about half of mutual fund shareholders used an advisor (p. 87).
There are disadvantages in mutual funds. Since closed-end funds are sold onto the market, the fund can’t take in any more investment money, (Mishkin & Eakins, p. 542). Also, investors can’t withdraw funds, only cash out by selling their shares. Hedge funds exhibit the latter weakness as well.
Mutual funds do bear one significant disadvantage to hedge funds. Since large amounts of people invest in the same mutual fund, free-rider problems occur when no one has the incentive to monitor the performance of managers (p. 554). 

Hedge funds on the other hand offer their own advantages.
Unique investment strategies.
Long/short funds – take on long and short positions to seek profit.
Market neutral funds – hedge against market movements. 
Global macro funds – bets on direction of a certain economic direction (interest rates, market, currency)…
Event driven funds – seek unique events to profit from.
High leverage can mean high profit. Also, some small profit potentials can only be realized by using extreme leveraging. 
Higher sharpe ratios (return to risk ratio) for hedge funds than most investments such as fixed-income.

Disadvantage hedge fund:
There may bring limited liquidity if investments are made in unpopular markets, such as art. The exotic securities they buy into may be difficult to price, and when market movements occur, these become pronounced. And of course, tough margin calls for highly leveraged positions. Since many of the hedge funds die with time, overall returns from the industry may be positively skewed, as failures aren’t calculated in historical performances.
Are hedge funds inherently more or less risky than traditional mutual funds?
Mutual funds are the only companies in the US that are required to have independent directors (p. 551). The SEC requires that the majority of directors are independent, as it feels this will result in better management.
Mutual funds are also heavily regulated by four main laws designed to protect investors (p. 550). Under law, funds must offer a prospectus (describing the funds goals, fees, risks, etc), and annual shareholder reports for free.  They must all register with the SEC and meet certain operating standards, and the Investment Advisers Act which regulates fund advisors. Lastly, antifraud rules apply. We can assume that such requirements designed to protect peoples investments do in fact work.
Beneath this security blanket, mutual funds also come with extreme diversification. They are also managed by people with just as much experience as those in the hedge fund industry.
So can hedge funds compete in risk? They’re core strategy of taking market-neutral a position sounds assuring, but it’s anything but risk free. 
